---
id: project-invite-membership
title: Project Invites and Membership
---

Project collaborators can be added by the project `owner` through the project
invite flow. The invite flow requires the user's email address to be entered and
does not depend on the user having an Ory Cloud account. Ory Cloud will send
them an invite link via the entered email, notifying them of the project they
are invited to as well as who has invited them (your email as the project
owner).

## Link Validity

The invite can have many states, namely:

- pending
- accepted
- declined
- expired
- removed
- cancelled

The state of the invite can only change in certain ways depending on the actions
of the subject (invited user), the actor (project owner) and the system. In the
below state diagram the invite state starts out at `pending` and then goes on to
be either `accepted`, `declined`, `expired` or `cancelled`. Only the subject can
`accept` and `decline` the invite, while the actor can `cancel`, `remove` and
`delete` an invite. The system can `expire` an invite.

[![](https://mermaid.ink/img/pako:eNqN0s1OxCAQB_BXIXM024vHHjzpE3i0HmZhumL4aKZDs2az7y6Usmo0sT0Q8uc3MKFcQEdD0MMsKPRo8cTou-VeDUHl7-XuVXXdg7JhsUI1q_M1nigYG06qVzEozYTFVNWWCkOtaRIy1c3p-E5atvS3NqSdDXs1nSfLK8ZRiBUqTSxogzKJUWz8ox-NQZNz7QjUEnkLK67jrZHalSP5WVGjalsbO-jX6Tswk4_L_7Ti2z0X3Sq_6TUql-DJ05G41MEBPLFHa_IjuJR9BpC3vD5An6eGRkxOBhjCNdM0mfyPn4zN20E_opvpAJgkPn8EDb1wooa2t7Sp6ydFEswT)](https://mermaid.live/edit/#pako:eNqN0s1OxCAQB_BXIXM024vHHjzpE3i0HmZhumL4aKZDs2az7y6Usmo0sT0Q8uc3MKFcQEdD0MMsKPRo8cTou-VeDUHl7-XuVXXdg7JhsUI1q_M1nigYG06qVzEozYTFVNWWCkOtaRIy1c3p-E5atvS3NqSdDXs1nSfLK8ZRiBUqTSxogzKJUWz8ox-NQZNz7QjUEnkLK67jrZHalSP5WVGjalsbO-jX6Tswk4_L_7Ti2z0X3Sq_6TUql-DJ05G41MEBPLFHa_IjuJR9BpC3vD5An6eGRkxOBhjCNdM0mfyPn4zN20E_opvpAJgkPn8EDb1wooa2t7Sp6ydFEswT)

:::note

Invite Links expire after 6 hours and can only be used once.

:::

## Invite user

### Without an Ory Cloud account

Ory Cloud supports inviting user's without an Ory Cloud account, however, some
conditions need to be met. Once the user follows the invite link, they will be
required to register an account. The email entered upon registration has to
match the email specified in the invite, if they do not match, the user will
need to change their email through the settings flow or recreate an account. The
invite also has to still be valid, this means the invite should not have expired
or been used.

### With Ory Cloud account

The user can simply click on the link, sign in and accept the invite. Of course
with the condition that the link is still valid.

## Project Member Seats

Each project, depending on the plan, has a set number of seats associated with
it. The number of seats are used up by `pending` and `accepted` invites. Once
the invite state changes to `expired`, `removed`, `declined` and `cancelled` the
seat is freed up again. The reason for `pending` invites to take up seats are to
prevent users from using up the seats on a first-come-first-serve basis.
